## {{page-title}}

<div class="nhsd-a-box nhsd-a-box--bg-light-blue nhsd-!t-margin-bottom-6 nhsd-t-body">
    <strong>Resolved: </strong>Specific a dosage with a <code>doseAndRate</code> with a quantity of 0 (zero).
</div>

### As part of a MedicationRequest

See the examples of [Lidocaine medicated plasters](DosageExamples-Fullycoded2?version=current#Lidocaine-plasters) and [Microgynon tablets](DosageExamples-Fullycoded2?version=current#Microgynontablets).

<!--The example given above for [Colchicine tablets](DosageExamples-Wherefree-textinstructionsarerequired#Colchicinetablets) also includes an instruction for a period of time where medication should not be taken;

> Do not repeat course for 3 days
-->

### As part of a MedicationAdministration or MedicationStatement

Within medicine administration records it is important, for certain medication, to clearly state periods where no medication was administered.

Two approaches are possible within the FHIR standard.

The first is to infer periods of no administration where there are no `MedicationAdministration` or `MedicationStatement` records that cover a given period of time. This approach is **not recommended** as not all records will be defined using an `effectivePeriod.start` and `effectivePeriod.end` date/time range. Some records will just be recorded with an `effectiveDateTime`. Depending on how specific the dosage instruction has been defined, the expected administration period could be calculated. However this approach is based on assumptions, not facts.

The second and our **preferred solution** is to record a zero quantity and a status of "on-hold" within a `MedicationAdministration` or `MedicationStatement` record for a medicine for a specific `effectivePeriod`. This example is an administration record of a 1-hour pause during a Heperain infusion. The `rateQuantity` is "0" (zero). The `status` is "on-hold".

See the example of administration records following [Heparin infusions](DosageExamples-Infusions?version=current#Heparin-infusion).

---