# {{page-title}}

Implementation guidance for medication records for patients participating in clinical trials.

## Known dm+d coded Medication 

If the medication is known within the NHS dm+d, and the patient is definitely taking the medication and not a placebo, the dm+d coded medication must be added to the patient's medication record (e.g. within a GP system medication record) and made available for sharing with other systems.

## Unknown and/or non dm+d coded Medication

If the medication is **not** known within the NHS dm+d, e.g. for trial medications not yet licensed, or where the patient does not know if they are taking the actual trial medication or a placebo, add the following SNOMED CT UK Drug Extension concept to the patient's medication record and made available for sharing with other systems.

```
419841000001106 | Clinical trial medication
```

<div class="nhsd-a-box nhsd-a-box--bg-light-blue nhsd-!t-margin-bottom-6 nhsd-t-body">
<strong>Note:</strong> The <code>419841000001106 | Clinical trial medication</code> concept will be available from within the SNOMED CT UK Drug Extension from 15th June 2022.
</div>

If the patient is taking multiple unknown trial medications then a **single** instance of the above SNOMED-CT concept must be added to their medication record. There shall always only be a maximum of one active instance of this concept in a patient's medication record.

The presence of this code is simply intended to act as a notification/ flag/alert to the clinician viewing the medication record. It **would not** be subject to any automated decision support.

The minimum dataset for this record shall be as per the minimum viable content as defined for a `UKCore-MedicationStatement`, with the exception of an omitted `dosage` instruction. Note the use of an `effectivePeriod` with a `start` date but no `end` date.

<!--// start of code snippet -->
<div>
    <ul class="nav nav-tabs" role="tablist">
      <li role="presentation" class="active">
        <a href="#xml-01" aria-controls="xml" role="tab" data-toggle="tab">XML</a>
      </li>
      <li role="presentation">
        <a href="#json-01" aria-controls="json" role="tab" data-toggle="tab">JSON</a>
      </li>
        <li role="presentation">
        <a href="#table-01" aria-controls="table" role="tab" data-toggle="tab">Table</a>
      </li>
      <li role="presentation">
        <a href="#tree-01" aria-controls="tree" role="tab" data-toggle="tab">Tree</a>
      </li>
  </ul>

  <!-- Tab panes -->
  <div class="tab-content snippet">
    <div role="tabpanel" class="tab-pane active" id="xml-01">
      {{xml:example-med-statement-unknown-trial-medication}}
    </div>
    <div role="tabpanel" class="tab-pane" id="json-01">
      {{json:example-med-statement-unknown-trial-medication}}
    </div>
    <div role="tabpanel" class="tab-pane" id="table-01">
      {{table:example-med-statement-unknown-trial-medication}}
    </div>
    <div role="tabpanel" class="tab-pane" id="tree-01">
      {{tree:example-med-statement-unknown-trial-medication}}
    </div>
  </div>
</div>
<!--// end of code snippet -->

## Clinical User Guidance

Where the above SNOMED-CT concept exists as an active record for a patient's medication the clinical user must take this into consideration and ask the patient, or responsible carer, for details of the clinical trial.

The clinician or clinically responsible organisation that adds the record of an unknown trial medication **must be** responsible for updating the medication record when the clinical trial concludes, or the patient is withdrawn from the study, to indicate the patient is no longer taking the medication (or placebo). 

When a clinical trial has concluded, here is an example of the resulting `MedicationStatement` generated by the clinical system for sharing with another system(s). Note the `effectivePeriod.end` defines when the patient stopped taking the medication and the `status` is `completed`.

<!--// start of code snippet -->
<div>
    <ul class="nav nav-tabs" role="tablist">
      <li role="presentation" class="active">
        <a href="#xml-02" aria-controls="xml" role="tab" data-toggle="tab">XML</a>
      </li>
      <li role="presentation">
        <a href="#json-02" aria-controls="json" role="tab" data-toggle="tab">JSON</a>
      </li>
        <li role="presentation">
        <a href="#table-02" aria-controls="table" role="tab" data-toggle="tab">Table</a>
      </li>
      <li role="presentation">
        <a href="#tree-02" aria-controls="tree" role="tab" data-toggle="tab">Tree</a>
      </li>
  </ul>

  <!-- Tab panes -->
  <div class="tab-content snippet">
    <div role="tabpanel" class="tab-pane active" id="xml-02">
      {{xml:example-med-statement-unknown-trial-medication-ended}}
    </div>
    <div role="tabpanel" class="tab-pane" id="json-02">
      {{json:example-med-statement-unknown-trial-medication-ended}}
    </div>
    <div role="tabpanel" class="tab-pane" id="table-02">
      {{table:example-med-statement-unknown-trial-medication-ended}}
    </div>
    <div role="tabpanel" class="tab-pane" id="tree-02">
      {{tree:example-med-statement-unknown-trial-medication-ended}}
    </div>
  </div>
</div>
<!--// end of code snippet -->

## Future Enhancements

The above guidance is intended as an initial implementation for this clinical scenario. It is intended to be simple and easy to implement. No attempt has been made to identify or share details of the clinical trial or the actual medication within the trial. 

---
