## {{page-title}}

The request for problems supports searching via a part parameter for the problem’s clinical status. Guidance is given in other sections of this specification as to how the provider will populate the response with identifying lists and related clinical content. This section describes consequences of those requirements specific to problems returned.

If the consumer request specifies a part parameter for status, the provider **MUST** return all problems with matching clinical status.

In addition to the matching problems, the provider **MUST** return the resource items referenced by the problem header as the actual problem, related problems or related clinical content as described on the {{pagelink:Home/Build/Linkages}} and the [Retrieve a patient’s structured record](https://developer.nhs.uk/apis/gpconnect-1-6-0/accessrecord_structured_development_retrieve_patient_record.html) page. The provider **MUST** include the related problem header resource regardless of whether the related problem matches the specified status, that is if the part parameter requests only active problems, where an active problem is directly related to an inactive one, then the inactive problem header will be returned. The provider **MUST** include a reference in the problems secondary list to the related problem header which does not match the specified status as described in {{pagelink:Home/Build/Using-lists-to-return-data}}. The provider **MUST NOT** include any resources referenced by the problem header resources in the secondary list which do not match the specified status. The provider **MAY** include problems in the ‘problems linked to problems’ secondary list which both meet the search criteria and are linked problems. The provider **MUST NOT** include any problem reference in the primary problem list which are returned only as related problems and do not directly meet the problem search criteria.

A consumer can therefore receive problems which do not meet the specified status, but the consumer can identify such problem header resources as they will be referenced in the ‘problems related to problems’ list but are not referenced by the primary problem’s list.
