## {{page-title}}

<span class="nhsd-a-tag nhsd-a-tag--bg-light-blue">Released on 24th December 2024</span>
<span class="nhsd-a-tag nhsd-a-tag--bg-light-green">THIS VERSION</span>
<span class="nhsd-a-tag nhsd-a-tag--bg-light-red">CURRENT VERSION</span>

[Link to specification](https://simplifier.net/guide/GP-Connect-DigiMeds-Emergency-Supply-of-Medicines/Home?version=1.3.0-public-beta)

<br />

<div class="nhsd-a-box nhsd-a-box--bg-light-yellow nhsd-!t-margin-bottom-6 nhsd-t-body">
    <b>Important</b>
    <ul>
        <li>The retirement status of the emergency supply of medicines use-case has been removed.</li>
        <li>This version of the specification has been migrated from the NHS developer network. It <strong>does not</strong> change the guidance in the previous specification; however, it has been designed to make it clearer as to what data items are supported, and how they currently flow between community pharmacy and GP IT systems.</li>
    </ul>
</div>



#### Changes

<table data-responsive>
    <tbody>
        <!-- Profiles -->
        <tr>
            <td class="nhsd-m-table__highlighted-items">
                {{pagelink:Home/FHIR-Assets/Profiles.page.md}}
            </td>
            <td>
                A complete list of FHIR profiles highlighting what is used in this specification.
            </td>
        </tr>        
        <!-- Example updated -->
        <tr>
            <td class="nhsd-m-table__highlighted-items">
                {{pagelink:Home/Examples/Example-1}}
            </td>
            <td>
                The example in the previous specification was malformed and not valid FHIR. The updated example has been generated using Firely and is valid.
            </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td class="nhsd-m-table__highlighted-items">
                Guidance added in the Build setion
            </td>
            <td>
                The previous specfication did not clearly articulate which items would be sent from a Community Pharmacy in the FHIR payload. The "Build" section contains guidance from each section along with a example HTML, a render, and FHIR snippets.
            </td>
        </tr>
        <!-- Migrated the Digital Medicines specification to Simplifier and rebranded -->
       <tr>
            <td class="nhsd-m-table__highlighted-items">Migrated the Digital Medicines specification to Simplifier and rebranded to GP Connect</td>
            <td>
                <ul>
                    <li>The PODAC DigiMeds team was disbanded in 2023, and the Digital Medicines specification was deprecated in favour of GP Connect: Update Record.</li>
                    <li>With the exception of Vaccinations, all former use-cases that the Digital Medicines specification supported either have been, or will be migrated to Update Record.</li>
                    <li>NHS England have a national vaccination team who are at the time of writing, defining a strategic solution to flow vaccination events through the NHS ecosystem; however, in the interim, the Vaccinations part of Digital Medicines will be used to flow Seasonal Influenza, COVID-19, Respiratory Syncytial Virus (RSV), and Pertussis vaccination events from Community Pharmacy, or NHS England's Data Processing Service (DPS).</li>
                    <li>Emergency supply of medicine events from Community Pharmacy will still flow using this mechanism using 1.1.3-alpha of the specification</li>
                </ul>
            </td>
        </tr>
    </tbody>
</table>

---