## {{page-title}}

In order for a form to be used consistently across the healthcare enterprise it must be defined and then stored in a repository.

The [US National Laboratory of Medicine - FHIR Tools](https://lhcforms.nlm.nih.gov/) has several tools to support the curation of forms and a repository of forms.

The NLM Form Builder provides an web app which can be used to generate FHIR Questionnaires. For example:

1. Open the form [NLM Form Builder](https://lhcformbuilder.nlm.nih.gov/)
2. Select `Start with an existing form`
3. Then select `Import from LOINC`, enter `Vital Signs` and select the entry with `74728-7` LOINC code.
4. When the top form is displayed, click on `Edit Questions` which displays the questions the forms contains.

This can then be stored on a central server to be shared with users. In the NLM Form Builder this can be done by using the export function. The address of the UKCore Hackathon Server is 

`https://3cdzg7kbj4.execute-api.eu-west-2.amazonaws.com/poc/events/FHIR/R4`

This server will make a few alterations to the submitted Questionnaire for technical reasons. The most important change is it will create a Questionnaire.url if one is not supplied from the Questionnaire.code. 
For the `Vital signs, weight, height, head circumference, oximetry, BMI, and BSA panel - HL7.CCDAr1.1` from the LOINC server, it will use the code `74728-7` and create a url of:

`https://example.fhir.nhs.uk/Questionnaire/74728-7`

This url is used in FHIR QuestionnaireResponse and Validation.

To find, update, add or delete the Questionnaire please see {{pagelink:Home/Artefacts/Demonstration-Server}} 

This Questionnaire can now be used by FHIR Validation to check FHIR QuestionnaireResponse resources.


