## {{page-title}}

- [US Physical Activity Implementation Guide](https://build.fhir.org/ig/HL7/physical-activity/index.html) Being physically active is one of the most important lifestyle behaviors people can engage in to maintain physical and mental health and well-being. Regular physical activity is both health-promoting and important for chronic and infectious disease treatment and prevention. It provides numerous benefits that contribute to a disability-free lifespan. Currently in the US, one in four adults are physically inactive, with increasing prevalence across some geographies and in certain races/ethnicities. (For more information and research citations highlighting the importance of physical activity and intervening to improve it, see the background page of this IG.)

- Mental Health [PACIO Cognitive Status Implementation Guide](https://build.fhir.org/ig/HL7/fhir-pacio-cognitive-status/) An individual’s cognitive status and mental functioning is crucial information to communicate for successful care coordination at transition of care and for on-going shared care. Care coordination – when a person transitions between healthcare settings, including ambulatory care, acute care, long-term post-acute care (LTPAC), and home- and community-based services (HCBS) – is often fragmented and can lead to poor health outcomes, increased burden, and increased costs. Interoperable health information exchange has the potential to improve patient and provider communications and supports access to longitudinal health information that enables improved efficiencies, improved quality of care, and improved health outcomes. Data should be usable across the continuum of care, and beyond the traditional healthcare system – into the community.