## {{page-title}}

### UK Core Scope
Q: What is the scope of FHIR UK Core - is it just profiling resources - what about international IGs for use cases that matter to the UK (such as IPS FHIR IG)<br>
Q: Is UK Core an enabling standard (saying a necessary minimum for diverse uses) or a standard for a limited footprint of designated use cases?<br>
Q: How does UK Core relate to international developments? Is NHSE funding learning from what is happening in other countries?<br>
Q: If UK Core is a "layer" over international FHIR how does that work? It seems to be a bucket of UK resources

A: The FHIR UK Core aims to provide a set of generalised profiles, that have been clinically and technically assured for example set of use cases, but kept viable in terms of it being an enabling standard by defining a broad cardinality and minimum viable content in order to fully support a 4 nation approach and maintain compatibility with the base FHIR standard. 

It is developed with a constant analysis of, and close alignment to, past standards such as CareConnect, future standards such as FHIR R5, and international standards such as US Core and IPS.

The FHIR UK Core will never contradict the base FHIR standard but will restrict and extend resources, including amending of any ValueSets and CodeSystems, as necessary to bring in line the UK requirements. The content is relevant to the UK as a whole (4 Nations) although some nation specific CodeSystems are included and referenced in ValueSets.

---

### CareConnect / FHIR STU3

Q: Will the ITK3 Transfer of Care standards be updated to no longer use care connect resources?<br>
Q: If a vendor is still implementing CareConnect STU3, should they continue or move to R4? How long does NHS expect to maintain backward compatibility?<br>
Q: Will this FHIR Reference Server be updated and if so, when does it get updated - will resources show as R4 STU2 Draft? https://fhir.nhs.uk/StructureDefinition<br>
Q: Roadmap for existing NHS D FHIR APIs (NEMS / MESH etc.)

A: With the release of the STU1 Balloted version of FHIR UK Core, the goal is to have all future FHIR APIs produced within NHS England be FHIR R4 compatible, and further development of the CareConnect FHIR STU3 standard will be halted. CareConnect APIs will continue to run alongside FHIR R4, but future re-development of CareConnect based services may be uplifted to FHIR R4 and be FHIR UK Core conformant.

There is no current timescale within which this will happen, and current implementations of CareConnect APIs should continue to be implemented for the foreseeable future.

---

### HL7 v2 Mapping

Q: Is there any guidance on usage of UK Core to profile inpatient admission/discharge events or conversion from HL7v2 ADT?<br>
Q: What about mapping from HL7 V2 TO FHIR ?

A: There is currently no mappings provided by HL7 UK or the UK Core Development Team between past HL7 standards such as v2 and v3, and the FHIR UK Core, although HL7 have given guidance about mapping from the base V2 standard to FHIR within their <a href="https://build.fhir.org/ig/HL7/v2-to-fhir/index.html">HL7 Version 2 to FHIR</a> guide. 

If you have a specific business use case where this mapping would be useful, please contact the UK Core Development Team here: <a href="mailto:interoperabilityteam@nhs.net?Subject=UK Core HL7 v2 Mapping">interoperabilityteam@nhs.net</a>

---

### STU2 Ballot

Q: Is there any guidance on usage of UK Core to profile inpatient admission/discharge events or conversion from HL7v2 ADT?

A: STU2 Ballot will contain profiles and extensions for Encounter

---

Q: Need Profile for QuestinnaireResponse (and maybe Questionnaire)

A: STU2 Ballot will contain these profiles

---

### Agenda Items

Q: A discussion is needed on the tooling for FHIR validators, e.g. HAPI

A: Validation Approach was an agenda item option, and scored highly, so will be discussed in an upcoming TIG meeting.

---

Q: What about mapping from HL7 V 2 TO FHIR ?

A: There are currently no defined mappings between HL7 V2, and UK Core.

---

Q: Is SMART on FHIR in scope ?

A: There is no specific roadmap to integrate SMART on FHIR and UK Core, but this is a FHIR paradigm that is being closely monitored by the UK Core Development Team. If you have a specific business use case where using SMART on FHIR with UK Core would be useful, please contact the UK Core Development Team here: <a href="mailto:interoperabilityteam@nhs.net?Subject=UK Core SMART on FHIR">interoperabilityteam@nhs.net</a>

----

Q: Roadmap for existing NHS D FHIR APis (NEMS / MESH etc.)

A: The landscape around FHIR APIs, for STU3 / CareConnect, and R4 / UK Core has been added to the agenda for the next TIG meeting, scheduled for 2pm on 03/08/23.

---

### Forums and Storage

Q: How will you support implementers whose organizations have a strong policy on accessing forums etc and block Zulip?

A: The UK Core Development Team also maintains a presence on <a href="interopen.ryver.com">interopen.ryver.com</a>, and can be reached by email at <a href="mailto:interoperabilityteam@nhs.net?Subject=UK Core FHIR Technical Implementation Group">interoperabilityteam@nhs.net</a>. Issues with UK Core resources can be raised directly on Simplifier, or by emailing the UK Core Development Team.

---

Q: Google Docs is blocked in my organisation

A: If you are unable to access the files stored on Google Drive, such as the Terms of Reference, or the slide deck for a meeting, reach out to us at <a href="mailto:interoperabilityteam@nhs.net?Subject=UK Core FHIR Technical Implementation Group">interoperabilityteam@nhs.net</a> to be sent a copy.

----

### Sprint 7

Q: Is everything needed in the sepsis indicators covered by "Diagnostics" and "Clinical observations"?

A: To register your interest in joining the Clinical and Technical Assurance process and to provide the UK Core Development Team with a sepsis indicator use case, please email: <a href="mailto:interoperabilityteam@nhs.net?Subject=Clinical and Technical Assurance">interoperabilityteam@nhs.net</a>

---

Q: How do you want clinicians to help? I have little time so need full direction to be useful

A: Any time that can be spent providing clinical input to the elements of a profile, or the concepts of a ValueSet, either during a Sprint call, or during the Sprint review period helps. To register your interest in joining the Clinical and Technical Assurance process, please email: <a href="mailto:interoperabilityteam@nhs.net?Subject=Clinical and Technical Assurance">interoperabilityteam@nhs.net</a>.

---

### General

Q: I'm from BSO HSCNI Northern Ireland and was wondering what is the usage rate of FHIR at present and how easy to add Fields

A: The UK Core Development Team do not track specific amounts of FHIR uptake, but all the evidence we have seen points to the use of FHIR within the UK healthcare market, in primary, secondary, and social care settings, growing at a rapid pace. You just have to look at the response to the formation of the Technical Implementation Group!

The UK Core Development Team is always eager to engage with specific programs within the 4 nations that UK Core is built to serve. If you have a specific use case around additional extensions, or specific bindings, please email: <a href="mailto:interoperabilityteam@nhs.net?Subject=UK Core Use Case">interoperabilityteam@nhs.net</a>

---

Q: The reality that we have to deal with is record systems missing much of the information in the FHIR archetypes and incompatible unmapped codings. What are your intentions?

A: Starting with the STU1 Ballot, the UK Core Development Team have analysed international standards, such as US Core, IPS, and local implementations, such as NHS England and DHCW, to provide a list of minimum viable content that we would expect suppliers and consumers to support. Bindings to ValueSets and CodeSystems within UK Core are designed to be preferred (for SNOMED CT / dm+d), or extensible, unless the Clinical and Technical Assurance process finds a specific reason to be stricter or more lenient.
<br><br>
The FHIR UK Core cannot solve this problem on its own, nor can it solve the problem centrally. Solving this problem requires collaboration, which is one reason we have formed the TIG.

---

Q: Vocab bindings

---

### SNOMED CT

Q: End users need coordination with coding systems, eg SN-CT. Will that be done before individual implementations start? Guidelines, helpdesks, model messages...<br>
Q: How can we get quickly the SNOMED CT codes we need for unambiguous comms? It currently takes years (or fobbed off with own namespace).<br>
Q: Adequate SNOMED CT codes

A: The UK Core Development Team work closely with NHS England Terminology Implementation team to determine clinically and technically assured ValueSets, using expression constraint language (ECL), or reference sets. The UK Core development acknowledges that the guidance around the use of SNOMED CT is an area that requires more effort / work.  To learn more about SNOMED CT and the NHS England Terminology Implementation team, please email:  <a href="mailto:information.standards@nhs.net">information.standards@nhs.net</a>

---

Q: Don't use post coordination!<br>
Q: Do we have a story on how we support SNOMED post coordination

A: Post coordination is a powerful aspect of SNOMED CT, and its use within FHIR is the subject of ongoing discussion within HL7 members and Working Groups. If you have a specific business use case where using SNOMED CT post coordination is needed, please contact the UK Core Development Team here: <a href="mailto:interoperabilityteam@nhs.net?Subject=UK Core SMART on FHIR">interoperabilityteam@nhs.net</a>

---

### Comments

Q: Pete's input suggests IHE-style fully-wrapped profiles for specific IGs on top of Core - sounds good!<br>
also - Petes suggestion sounds a bit like a WHO Digital Adaptation Kit https://www.who.int/publications/i/item/9789240020306

A: The UK Core is built around the idea of having clinically and technically assured use cases to drive the design and implementation of profiles, extensions, ValueSets and CodeSystems, with suitable guidance to support these. We have listened closely to feedback from the STU1 Ballot, to improve the quality of the guidance within the UK Core Implementation Guide, and only provide guidance where it differs from the base FHIR specification. This holistic approach to clinical and technical assurance, working closely with use case providers, programs, and terminology enables us to start approaching the level of fully wrapped guidance that has been suggested, and work is underway within DHCW, and NHS England to further this goal.

---

Q: Tight definition or Profiles. No optionality<br>
Q: Profiles should ideally have no optionality. If Optionality is needed then have two or more profiles for that.

A: The approach of previous FHIR initiatives by NHSE was to define lots of profiles, rather than allow optionality, and FHIR UK Core aims to address some of the issues this caused by reducing the amount of tightly defined profiles. Loosely defined profiles will be created as the default, as the profiles need to be useful for all UK FHIR exchanges. Where very tight profiles are required for business reasons then further profiles can be produced at country / implementation level. UK Core profiles will never enforce everyones business rules and this approach follows other FHIR Core approaches. Feedback from vendors is overwhelmingly on the side of fewer looser profile instead of many tight profiles

---

Q: Need a way for those on the call to respond to the questions raised on call - would be interesting to see / hear other views alongside those of Dave / Kevin

A: It was propsed that for the inaugural TIG call, that the Q&A process was managed via Slido. The format of future TIG calls is to be agreed with members, and we're looking at options for managing Q&A for a large number of active participants, to allow discussions to occur without de-railing the meetings. For now, our suggestion is to discuss specific questions on the <a href="https://chat.fhir.org/#narrow/stream/397821-UK-Core-TIG">UK Core TIG</a> stream on chat.fhir.org

---

Q: Our Scottish primary care digital prescribing & dispensing pathway will likely make use of FHIR but not directly usable as it stands. Happy to pick up if able

A: Thanks, the UK Core Development Team is always eager to engage with specific programs that are looking to implement the UK Core. If you have a specific use case, please email: <a href="mailto:interoperabilityteam@nhs.net?Subject=UK Core Use Case">interoperabilityteam@nhs.net</a>

---

Q; There's a problem with suppliers/vendors implementing different versions of profiles or implimentation guidance and do not behave as expected when the 2 products meet.

A: UK Core tries to avoid breaking changes between the balloted standards for trial use that are published, and where a breaking change is identified, this will be flagged up on the Version History. Additional functionality is added to profiles via the clinical and technical assurance process, and confirmed via the ballot process. The more input vendors have in these processes the less likely there is that breaking changes will be made.
<br><br>
If you have a specific example where a version conflict has occurred, please  email: <a href="mailto:interoperabilityteam@nhs.net?Subject=UK Core Use Case">interoperabilityteam@nhs.net</a> with more details.

---