## {{page-title}}

Consumers of medication/medical device resources generated by other systems **MUST** consider the clinical safety issues arising from processing medication/medical device information recorded in different care settings and contexts, and seek clinical safety guidance where appropriate.

Key concerns are the understandability of received medication/medical device information and appropriate actions to degrade and identify medication/medical device concepts which are not understood by the receiving system. Appropriate clinical workflows may also be required at the receiver - for example, deactivation of received medications/medical devices such that they **MUST** be explicitly re-authorised to make them issuable.

Currently dosage and quantity information are expressed in unstructured/textual form. A system intending to consume dosage and quantity information needs to be capable of handling unstructured quantities and dosages. We expect GP Systems to transition to structured dose syntax in the future as detailed in [ISN DAPB4013](https://digital.nhs.uk/data-and-information/information-standards/information-standards-and-data-collections-including-extractions/publications-and-notifications/standards-and-collections/dapb4013-medicine-and-allergy-intolerance-data-transfer) and to populate the structured message to comply with the guidance set out in [UK Core](https://simplifier.net/guide/ukcoreimplementationguideformedicines/ElementDosage?version=current#text) but as applied to the STU3 dosage element structure. The records for current medication are likely to be in transition for a period of time with some in a structured format and some not. Historic medications may remain as unstructured dosage.

**Note** that the implementation guidance has been written for FHIR R4 UKCore with all examples based on R4 UKCore.

There are minimal differences between the FHIR STU3 and R4 UKCore versions of the `Dosage` structure. The UKCore version is identical to the international FHIR R4 version. Differences between STU3 and R4 are [documented](https://hl7.org/fhir/R4/dosage.html#tabs-Dosage-diff) (see ‘R3 Diff’ for details). Additional guidance is provided here to support implementations within the UK.

The difference relates to the `dose[x]` and `rate[x]` elements from STU3 that have been parented by a new `doseAndRate` element in FHIR R4. An optional `doseAndRate.type` element has been added to distinguish between calculated and ordered (by a human) dosage rates. This is not supported within the STU3 so can be ignored.

To convert an example into STU3, remove the parent `doseAndRate` element as shown in the example below:

### FHIR R4 and R4 UKCore Example

```xml
<doseAndRate>
      <doseQuantity>
          <value value="2" />
          <unit value="tablet" />
          <system value="http://snomed.info/sct" />
          <code value="428673006" />
      </doseQuantity>
</doseAndRate>
```

### FHIR STU3 Example

```xml
<doseQuantity>
     <value value="2" />
     <unit value="tablet" />
     <system value="http://snomed.info/sct" />
     <code value="428673006" />
</doseQuantity>
```